# In-game overlays

Provided as a separate plugins, these can display pretty much anything inside the game itself.  

StreamCompanion has 2 in-game overlay plugins:
* [Browser overlay](#browser-overlay)
* [Text overlay](#text-overlay)

## Browser overlay

Used to display any web overlay in-game.

* **Step 0:** Install it using latest [`StreamCompanion-browserOverlay.exe`][latestRelease] or unpack it in plugins folder using portable version.
* **Step 1:** On first startup it will download around 120MB of additional required assets.
* **Step 2:** In settings, under `Browser overlay` tab select overlay that you want to display from the list
* **Step 3:** Apply recommended canvas settings
* **Step 4:** Adjust x/y position values depending on where you want it located on the screen.

Repeat steps 2-5 for as many web overlays you want. Keep in mind however that running too big(total canvas size) overlay will result in a noticeable game performance penalty.  
<small>There is an upper limit of 16 ingame overlays.</small>
::: tip TIP: Increase canvas size if your overlay is not fully visible
:::


## Text overlay

Used to display simple text content generated by Output patterns. This may be enough if you don't need anything fancy.

* **Step 0:** Install it using latest [`StreamCompanion-textOverlay.exe`][latestRelease] or unpack it in plugins folder using portable version.
* **Step 1:** In settings, under `Output patterns` tab you'll see new checkbox added under `Preview`, controlling which pattern should be displayed in-game.
* **Step 2:** Upon checking that, You'll be able to configure basic display options like used font, size or color of the text.
* **Step 3:** To see any of your changes reflected in-game you need to save your pattern, change song in osu! and wait up to 5 seconds.

## Troubleshooting

::: warning These overlays work with some, but not all other overlays

Known **working**:  
Discord, Steam, Nvidia overlay

Known **not working** (either doesn't show anything or crashes osu!):  
Rivatuner OSD, reshade
:::

General checklist:
- Try restarting your PC.
- Try running BOTH StreamCompanion and osu! as administrator.

In case overlay still fails to display anything you can check what other applications are trying to interact with osu!. Restart StreamCompanion with logging level set to `Trace` and start osu! in order to create a list of unknown files loaded in osu! in `Files/Logs/`.  
Googling these files individually will most of the time give you a good idea what application it is from. Try disabling some/all of these, and seeing if that changes anything.

[latestRelease]: <https://github.com/Piotrekol/StreamCompanion/releases/latest/>